I guess I'll start with my presentation. We had two groups of people working on this.
So
we'll show you two slightly different presentations.
Feel free to ask any questions or comments. Obviously,
um The first one
was done by myself, Bruno Marianne and Nikos.
And the rationale that we have, I'll show you the layout in a second
was that full professors would get private offices.
Administration is close to the professor's offices.
So it's easier for the secretary to speak to everyone.
The fax is in the administration office since it's mostly used by
Gisela,
who's the secretary for noise reduction purposes.
We've moved everyone who has office hours
together
and we've also put the network printer and the photocopier in the hall.
Um So I'll just show you how that works.
Basically, you can see
Gisella sort of there in the middle with the fax machine.
And Maggie and Susan, who a re the two full professors
and our department have the private offices
and the photocopier and the printer,
a re sort of in the hall on the side there across from the mailboxes.
Um Just to go back, most people a re grouped in projects
and we have 2 50% people who a re half time in Geneva, half time A T, the Epflin Lausanne
and they, then we've put in three person offices so that in the three person offices,
it's not constantly three people.
So there's a little bit of give there
and the reading room or the lounge as some people
call it that we have is in a central position.
So basically, we've got Andre and Nancy A T the top.
Um, they don't act, they will be starting a new project together if, um,
if I'm not mistaken,
like I said, Susan and Maggie in the individual offices, Nikos
and Yalina who work on the SA me project A T the bottom,
the reading room is in the middle.
Um Marianne and Bruno
A
reat the bottom. Um, as well. Marianne works closely with Pierre
and the other Marianne. We have two Marianne in our department
and David is a half time. So as I said, the half times are in the three person offices.
And on the other side,
we have Maria Martin and myself who all work on the same project and Martin is 50%.
Um
Gisela, we've given her a two person office for two reasons. One is
because there's a spare place there. So if we want to put
a
tie
or someone who just comes in for a short period of time,
we figured it was okay if they were in the admin office, which is a little bit noisy
because they're only there for a short period of time.
Um, and again, the proximity to the other offices.
Um,
so I guess that's pretty much it
for
our proposal.
Um,
I don't know if you want Andre to go through
his first or if you have any questions for me.
So you said so
Pierre
is a professor,
but
she's only,
she's only 50% time. Is
that why
it's,
do you wanna explain how
Martin
is?
50%
Martin
is 50%
pure?
There's two sort of statutes
-- of professor, I guess you could say,
-- well,
because you would say that she's an assistant professor or something like that.
But
um
yeah,
and
the,
yeah, they a re full professors and assistant professors if you want.
And yeah, it's true that she's an assistant professor. But uh,
well, we see maybe we can move a little bit around just to give her uh,
well, also a t least, maybe not a
uh an office alone but a t least with just one person, not two.
-- But the
-- idea is Maggie and Susan, a re sort of the senior
um professors on staff. So they got the,
the individual offices
and what, what's happening,
what do you foresee happening in the next couple of years?
Like beyond this,
beyond this current group of people, do we, do we know of any changes coming?
-- Is the department growing
-- or
um,
the department will obviously be growing.
But there's some people who only work part time.
There's some people who are doing phd S or master students
who won't necessarily be there for a larger extent of time.
So for Exa M
Yelena and the Finnish Marianne, a re master students
for right now, so whether they decide to stay and do a phd,
we're not sure yet.
Um Nikos
is working um as a researcher.
So for him, it's the same thing. There's,
I think the only
constant people are Susan, Maggie Andre,
um
Gisela
Pet.
Um And all the rest are either phd students or master students.
And again, Martin and David are half time with the BFL. So
that's project dependent as well.
Unfortunately, we haven't been given as much space as we would have liked, but
that's always the case.
And have you,
have you talked to any of these people to ask them if they have any
special requirements?
Um, Susan wanted a private office. She has a preference for private offices.
Other than that,
-- no one really had any tight constraints from what I've
-- heard of people.
They needed to be
near or people they needed to avoid or
no one's explicitly said that they needed to avoid anyone else.
But you've given people a chance to say that if they really needed to.
Okay, good.
But even no specific views f or mountains or old town or,
I mean, people prefer any windows.
No, and they were fine with it.
And they're both nice views.
I
-- guess those thin lines, a re, I mean, their windows or, yeah,
-- their windows.
Oh, sorry, the thick lines, a re windows actually
we have fairly big windows.
Yeah. Yeah. So there's lots of light coming in
and one of the reasons for putting the reading room where it
was is that you have a lot of light coming in.
So people just go somewhere to sort of relax and
-- have a quiet places. They have a lot of light. It says
-- mountains. Is that because
that's the view.
-- So it's the best of you. You gave the reading room the best of
-- you.
Yeah.
Well, I mean, it depends if you like looking out over the old town and the cathedral
could sort of go both ways. But,
yeah, we've got two mountain views, sort of on that side, that side.
And then the last part looks on the old town
because we're on the sixth floor. You can actually see everything.
I don't think buildings a re much higher than,
-- what was it? Six or eight
-- floors.
Just
so,
-- what's a purple thing
-- there?
The purple thing is the mailboxes
and those a re fixed. We can't do anything about those.
So you can't do any partitions. I mean, you're planning to do any partitions in three
persons
and rooms or
these
kind of block.
We don't have anything like that.
If we can get stuff like that, it might be a good idea. Some people might like them.
A t the moment we have people thre sharing
like three people in our room without any partitions and
it's a little bit noisy but
people sort of get used to it. And
admittedly it's mostly assistants that a re stuck in rooms like that. So it's
junior people.
But,
um,
well, I can think of some reactions from the people. So maybe I can.
-- Do
-- you wanna do your
presentation? Yeah.
Well, tell me about some of the constraints and, well, first of all, I must say that
there a re also quite a lot of common points. So, um,
it's probably not going to be very difficult to.
Yeah, please. Thanks.
Perfect.
So, um, yeah, actually, we, um,
well, basically the, the group who produced this, uh,
proposal was made by Susan Martin David and, uh, and myself
and we also, well, Susan volunteered to ask Maggie and Pierrette about how they,
they felt about sharing offices.
And, uh,
so as you can see, well, um, Susan gets obviously the SA ME office,
which is quite a good thing.
Um,
then things start to move a bit. It looks like I'm also in the SA Me position.
But the most obvious constraints that uh we, we found here was that
it was probably very difficult to have a lounge, uh,
just a lounge in one room because it would block us two full working places.
And although it's true that the group, I agree, decided to, to have to have a lounge.
We propose to put the lounge, uh, in the room. A t the, the upper side on, on the right.
Uh, so let two people share this with, uh, sort of, uh, yeah, a place where we have, uh,
a sofa maybe and, uh, and some books.
So it's obviously a calm place. People a re not there to talk very loud,
but they can sit and relax and still look a tat the mountains.
Um Also, so that's one of the main differences.
I think maybe one of the points that we have to talk about.
Uh The other one is the admin office. So it's written Gisella
50% because she's only half time and uh the fax machine,
um
Gisele
actually has a lot of phone calls to make and uh it's
true that her activity is quite noisy when she is there.
Um It's also true that she has quite a lot of files for most of the,
the projects actually that we manage.
So it appeared a t least to, well to our group that even if she's here only half time,
she should have an office by her own because
it would be quite disturbing for other people to,
to work in the, the Sa me office.
Uh
Gisela is has no objection against sharing the office.
We thought it was more for the, the calm of the, the people
it's true that this blocks one of the one person rooms.
But uh on the other hand, uh Maggie has no objection.
Uh sharing an office with her assistant
and this appeared to be true. Also, of Pierrette,
we don't know about Pierrette,
sharing an office with two persons, but a t least no problem
in Pierrette
sharing her office with uh Marian,
the Swedish one who is
her assistant.
Um So this is why we, yeah, we put Maggie with, with Bruno
and then
the third main difference
uh would be the, the number of visitor places or free places.
Uh You notice a new na me in the room uh A t the centre, upper, upper side.
So that's Paula.
It's true that it's someone coming next year.
Susan reminded me this uh of this point and I could not really ignore it.
Uh So, um
this, she is in Italic. She will arrive in about two months
and the two
vis one and vis two A re the visitor places
you had one I think called free space or spare,
spare place.
Um We didn't really reach a very good
agreement on the distribution of these two rooms.
So the, the two A T the center
uh where is there,
Paula,
Yalina, the two visitors and then Maria plus David.
So I think there is quite a lot of space here to uh switch a little bit
among the people
just to make some kind of smooth occupancy rate.
So not to have one empty room when we have no visitors.
Um And uh then a very full room when everybody is here.
So I think we were, we a re quite willing to split and put,
say maybe one visitor with Maria
and David, uh 50% in the other room with the second visitor. So that
realistically, we don't actually have that many visitors coming in.
I've been there for almost two years and we've had a couple of
-- stas, but that's
-- it.
Well, yeah, exactly. So the visitors are basically stier
and it happens that sometimes we have two of them,
even if it's only for three or four months,
Martin seemed to insist that when we have a visiting professor, for instance,
we cannot really put him with
Gisella because, well, they wouldn't feel very nice. They, they made the joke.
Yeah.
So we should manage some kind of decent space.
It's true that these one or two last one or two years,
we didn't have a visiting professor.
But, um,
yeah, so, uh I think, yeah, these a re the three main points.
So one is the place of the lounge.
Uh The other one is the uh the place of the admin office with
Gisela. And the third one is the number of visitor visiting people. And uh,
well, how many of them we want to accommodate?
And where, where we put it, these, I think a re the three main differences.
Otherwise we pretty much agree on, uh,
on placing people.
Oh,
in a way, if that's your argumentation, then put a visiting person with a senior
researcher, at least if not a professor rather than two
students.
Um, sorry,
I, I didn't understand
if you're gonna argue that the visitors a re supposed
to be important and they should have their own space,
then put them with
another researcher rather than two
students.
Yeah, that's, that's true. I think, yeah, they a re quite open to, to this.
Martin also reminded us that he's quite noisy.
He has a lot of uh phone calls to make even if it's here,
if he's here only 50% of the time.
Um
So, yeah, I, I don't mind this but uh
that's something but it's true. Yeah, we could also
try to put a visitor and the professor
um
Martin made another point.
It was the fact that sometimes professor have to
professors have to discuss sensitive matters about projects and financing
and they sometimes might feel uncomfortable discussing this with their, well,
in the presence of their phd students
like saying, oh, I, I have to reduce her from 80% to 50%. That's probably something.
So, I
mean, all these a re constraints, I don't know how,
how you would like us to proceed from,
from here or if you already have questions or reactions on this one,
but how often the launch is used? Um
People lose us
-- on a regular basis daily basis or
-- fairly regularly.
There's a t least one or two people in there.
I mean,
it's, yeah,
it's a fairly new thing in the department,
but it's being used pretty regularly. It was something that a lot of people wanted.
Just sort of a quiet space out of your office
that doesn't have the office furniture, the office chairs, it sort of has
comfortable sofas and armchairs and things like that where you can just go and
relax and,
or if you want to read something for a
longer period of time in a more comfortable environment
-- and because we do a lot of reading and things like that, it does get used fairly
-- often.
So it's not a place for discussion
and
-- we
-- sort of have an open policy where if there's no
one in there and you want to have a discussion,
then that's fine.
But you can't
displace people who a rein their reading
just because you want to have a mini meeting or whatever.
So there's no a re you planning some kind
of partition between the lounge and the offices or
how a re you gonna keep those things,
keep them separate cause it
seems like.
Mm Yeah, that's true. That's one of the problems.
Um Well, we were told that it was not really possible to build walls,
but we noticed that this room actually has two doors.
So uh we thought that maybe we could put some kind of, well separation
case
or
maybe just yeah, furniture or just uh some kind of screen,
-- but it won't
-- be uh
an acoustic separation. No, it's not sound proof. So if, if the
those a re students there,
so if they're noisy that could disrupt the quiet of the lounge,
um
which is sort of why in our proposal, we had it
completely as a separate room
is that if you really want peace and quiet,
you shut the door and when the doors a re shut,
like, unless someone's making noise right outside the door,
it really is fairly quiet.
But you've also put the lounge in a very k
kind of a high traffic area where the mailboxes,
a re
the printer
and the
rest rooms. So that's, um,
that may also that, that may be good for
meeting people and bumping into people, but it's
maybe against the idea if it's a very, supposed to be an isolated quiet spot.
So, yeah. Well, it was actually this pressure from, from my group
that led to this to squeeze a little bit the, the place of the lounge.
Now, how for instance,
would the university feel about the room that would be only used as a lounge?
Would they feel it's too empty and that we have too much space
or is there no problem. Do you see a problem with having a room just for a lounge or no?
Well, maybe if it,
if it helps us pack more people into the offices because they have a private lounge.
Maybe it's a good thing, saves us money.
-- But,
-- uh,
so we could have a separate room as a lounge. As long as, uh, we pack the other offices.
I guess that's personally, I, I have no problem with this. So, um,
it's, it's fine.
I
mean, I suppose if the need really arises and it comes to a point where we do have
a lot of people, then you can get rid of the lounge,
figure out what to do with the furniture,
either distribute it between various offices
or,
but you
-- put it into storage
-- somewhere.
So
it's not a completely experimental concept.
Has
a
lounge.
This is something that
it started off sort of as a discussion at the coffee table where
people were complaining that sort of in the middle of the afternoon,
they just wanted somewhere to go off.
And
-- so you have some quiet
-- time and
that's where it
came from
there. A re bookshelves in there, but it's not really a library because everyone
a t the moment everyone has a bookshelf in their office
and we just go in and borrow books from everyone else.
It's more really about having a comfortable place to sit,
um, where
it's not an office environment, it doesn't look anything like an office.
You mean, you can display some
new
or new.
Yeah.
And people can come in with their stuff or leave
a newspaper or magazine lying around for other people.
We've got a bulletin board where you can paste up
articles that you think a re interesting for other people.
But
okay, so I think maybe we can agree on,
on the lounge in a separate room if we can manage to,
to find space elsewhere.
What about
Gisela? How do you feel about putting her in a
separate office?
Which is the case now, I think
she
has,
-- which is
-- why we were thinking that it wouldn't be a problem to keep her
with a spare person because that's the w the situation it is right now. And
if you're a stas
and you're coming in, you don't necessarily expect to have
a full blown office if you're only there for about two months.
Yeah, it depends on what kind of visitor you a re exactly. So we could say some kind of
low key visitor
even this 50%.
I mean, they're all separate or
actually
Gisela 50% means that she's there
half time. Uh, generally in the mornings,
Gisela has a fixed schedule for when she's there. But David and Martin a re sort of,
they f it fluctuates like they can't say that they'll be there Monday,
Tuesday and half of Wednesday
and not the rest of the time,
which is part of the problem. I mean,
they can't
specify when exactly they'll be there.
So, our rationale for putting them in a three person rooms
is that it doesn't matter
when they're there and whether they're there for certain hours or not,
it's just either there's two or three people
in those rooms and sometimes there's less,
sometimes there's more
because we also don't work fixed hours.
It's not like we work, you know, 9 to 5 or whatever, everyone sort of
keeps their own hours.
So, can you just summarize briefly the differences between your two proposals?
The key differences?
I
think it's what I tried to, to do before shared
lounge, the shared
-- lounge, the
-- assistance with their professors,
two
cases.
And
then
do you have
a
separate?
We have P
and Marianne in.
No, I think this is quite accepted in this
case.
No, I think it's uh the lounge, uh
the admin room,
the lo the
-- admin room
-- separate. Yeah, and the number of slots for visitor
and for this new student who arrives because having just one spare place,
this was probably the strongest disagreement in my group.
People said uh
we should have a t least two or three spare places
just for, you know, growing or sometimes you have three interns that arrive.
So even if they a re not perfect places.
Um
ok. So you basically
-- achieve that by giving less space to the reading
-- room, I think.
Yeah, that's, yeah, that's how I did inin our proposal. Yeah,
I guess one of the questions is how important is the reading room to your group?
Really? Is it, is it something that's a very
valued thing that has to be protected,
um,
or is it okay to make it be kind of this spare
space that gets used up a little bit when you need,
when you have some extra visitors and things like that. I think that's,
I think because it's a fairly new thing, it's
a little hard to say a t this point.
I think that most people like it now that it's there,
they sort of see the value of it and
they wouldn't want to see it wiped out entirely. Definitely.
But I suppose once it, if it gets eaten away a little bit,
a tot some point it becomes unuseful.
And then, yeah,
and that's the danger.
But then we need to squeeze inin one of the three person rooms,
some extra visitor space.
And, uh,
I, I think so if, if we want to keep the reading room,
I, I think it's possible like playing a little bit with the furniture.
Um,
so,
yeah, I think another point here and I don't know how you, you feel about it is, well,
the fact that Martin is said he would be quite noisy, 50% of the time,
so many phone calls.
So I wouldn't put him in that big office even if he's 50%.
But he's still a professor here and
we got him from EPFL.
So that
I, I think, I mean, if we need to reach a solution. Now,
I,
I wouldn't mind working from your plan and doing some
changes or if you prefer working from mine and doing
other
changes.
Um,
so, um,
-- okay, well, since this one's up, keep
-- this one in. Okay. Yeah.
Depends how, how easy you can write in it easily.
Okay. So let's keep the reading room.
Uh, also I think P
Janet and Martin should deserve a t least,
I think offices with one person, not with two.
Okay.
Maybe. Can we combine both or like
two person room
PP and Martin.
Yeah, Martin is 50%.
We, we never ask them. It could be. But um
because the other side they have, I think no real project in common. So
I wonder
what
uh
I think I would prefer and probably my group
would prefer to see them with the respective assistance.
And I think Pierrette
plus Marianne
is a very good combination.
Why not
switching them from? Yeah, that office.
Yeah. Switch the whole group.
Yeah, Marianne
Swedish. And then,
so what does that mean? Swedish?
-- Um
-- There's
two V
one is Swedish, one is Finnish. So we just call them
the Swedish and the Finnish.
Both Fami
na Mes start with ST A
no, both start with
s
so just to
-- know who they a
-- re okay.
Uh It was Bruno,
right?
Ok.
Mhm.
Now, let's do something with Martin too.
Um,
-- but
-- even you can create one more speed
place in the big three piece room
in here.
Yeah, maybe we can write it.
This
one. David is 50% and visitor one sh, yeah, or spare. Or
it's fine.
Mm.
-- Well, for
-- Martin, if you didn't mind working with Martin,
we can switch Nancy and Martin
here.
I think that's
closer to what
they said.
Oops.
Well, because actually we have this project in common,
you know, go lime too.
Oh,
wrong keyboard.
I heard of that.
Um Yeah, I think it's, and so could we,
-- um, so
-- we can say that this is sort of for,
but then again, you get the more formal visitor
in with
a bunch of students in a crowded room.
Well, I think,
yeah. Or Gisela.
But I think there is no way to,
-- well, you can say
-- that this one is for, let's say stas
or
intern,
yeah, sort of second. Uh
-- um um
-- Yeah,
but you, you can move administration to the single room like
because she's only 50% working and,
and she will,
so you would put
-- in a one person room
-- and give that room to some professor
with the student or from professor with the visiting place or?
Mhm.
Yeah, we could,
yeah, even put,
we can move Maggie and Bruno.
We couldn't put Maggie and Bruno together,
Gisela
and move the other spare place
to the big room. But then there's not
a lot of people in there.
No, let's leave it like this for the moment.
How do you feel because your office, well,
three persons and you're all full time in there.
-- So, you, with Nancy and Maria, we're
-- not terribly noisy. I think it'll be fine.
Yeah. And you have per
does in common with Nancy
and I am too, in common with Maria and
we work on slightly different schedules too because
Maria and I tend to work earlier and
Nancy tends to work later.
So that shouldn't be a problem.
And do you think we could put a visitor with Nikos
and
Yalina?
Because it's, it's also, it's not very clear, you know,
Yalina s that was said in our meeting,
Yalina sm
master thesis should be defended,
you know, couple of months or something like that.
So we don't really know what happens afterwards.
So we could a t least think it's sort of an open place
or you could get that office for you and Nancy and put Nikos
and, uh,
Yalina with Maria
and a visitor.
What about that?
When would you like to have a columnar spot?
Um,
so you want to do?
That's gonna backfire me.
So, when you, when you put four people in that office,
does that mean you're planning on four desks?
You need space for four desks
and
that's the problem
if it's
possible.
Yeah, you either get smaller desks because the ones that we have now won't fit.
Yeah. But a visitor actually, um, doesn't have that much paper.
So, for instance, maybe they don't need, uh,
well, uh, the place to put their files, you know, a small, uh, drawer,
they just need a, a desk and probably just one drawer under underneath.
And so you can fit that,
but you can't put three desks in the two person rooms.
Yeah, probably not. I think it wouldn't be, uh,
Yelena. And we, we could think of a visitor too here.
So I think it's gonna be too much.
And so
there is also this Paola
arriving
um on the new project. So,
you know, Susan insisted that uh
we should be
and it's all, it's also, it's not very clear
because Nikos
and
Yalina a re well, Nikos
is um
research student,
Yalina will finish her master thesis. So it's
Yeah. OK.
Yeah,
Paola
or
like that
or maybe B LA
will be able to choose.
Yeah, I think that's quite okay.
Uh Do you know about any preference of Maggie being alone or with Bruno?
I don't think she cares.
Yeah.
Um David mentioned also that
there should be some kind of gender balance.
I, I don't know if there is a strong constraint but I think we're doing pretty well.
You mean?
-- So
-- maybe you should break the wall between the men's room and the women's
not
sure that
what
was
actually Bruno did mention that he didn't want to be in a room with a
lot of people because he did that before and he didn't really like it.
So maybe,
I don't know. I can switch with him and we can put him and Nancy together. I don't mind.
It doesn't really bother me.
Ok. That's fine if you mentioned this to
you.
Quite
nice.
And, ok. Yeah, I'm with Martin.
That's very balanced.
Well, the gender balancing, we have more women than men in our department anyways.
So,
yeah, that's why.
Okay if you don't mind me sharing the office with Martin, that's fine.
Okay. Yeah, that looks good. So,
with,
and David. Yeah. So you have IM two in common.
That's nice. And here's 50%. So that means the office is not very crowded.
Okay. The other one is a bit crowded but that's okay.
Do you see any constraints from the administrative side?
But even like you can put polar in
administrative,
you already three people.
It
looks like small room compared to the other three
is your person to square meter ratio within the university norms.
Um, I, I
think
we don't, we don't, I mean,
we don't want people coming in seeing this lavish reading room and,
and, and everyone having their own office.
If that's not what we're having in the other places,
we have to make sure that um,
if for exa Mples, there's a spare reading room, like we were saying before,
overall, your department has, doesn't have excessive space per person.
Well, what was said, Inin, my group actually, Susan,
who knows professors from other, um, other faculties.
Well, she noticed that most of them have rooms alone.
So this is true for Susan and Maggie, but not true here for
Pierrette and, and Martin.
So we can already argue that uh we're squeezing in even the, the professors.
It's true that the reading room, but, you know, we fought so much to have it.
So let's, uh let's try to have it there.
And I think putting four people in a three person room
is already a sign that uh we a re already quite uh
quite full. So, um
I think, yeah, it's normally the nominal capacity of this. I think it's uh
18 people,
um 18 or, or 17
and we're already 15 if you don't count
Paola and some visitor's place.
And I think it's quite important to have space for visitors because
if you have no visitors or if you cannot take a new,
well, intern during the summer, you're re very much handicapped.
So I think we're, yeah.
Um Well, the reaction of my group was that this was almost full already. So I,
-- we tried
-- to
basically, we're moving into a new space, but it's
only marginally better than the old one.
Yeah.
So I think, yeah, what we could say about the reading room is that we,
we squeeze quite a lot of people inin the other offices.
So
I think it's okay.
No,
it's good in case I ever have to defend it.
You know, it's good to have some numbers, if you can come up with some numbers.
Yeah, we can do that
and maybe uh relative to some other comparable departments. That's,
it's good to have that.
But if you both agree with this plan and you think your group will be happy,
then um
it's fine with me. I don't know about you. What do you think?
So?
Maybe it's another name,
just say, OK, it's fine.
Okay. Okay.
So my group also asked to circulate
the final proposal just to
everyone along with the numbers that you guys wanted to see in terms of the space.
Ok?
-- We're
-- done.
Great.
-- Thank you for your
-- time. Thank
you.
Thank you,
sir.
Ok?
And the hookers downstairs.